# geoCML Manifesto 

geoCML is a deployment pattern for Containerized Multi-paradigm Lightweight geographic information systems (GIS) running locally or in the cloud. geoCML deployments are built with Docker using a single base image. This image installs all necessary prerequisite software for doing best-in-class open-source GIS work.

Each geoCML deployment is intended to host only one GIS; users who want to have multiple systems will need multiple geoCML deployments. An entire GIS deployment can be completed in a few minutes with minimal hassle, since geoCML does all necessary configuration out of the box. Users may still choose to further configure their deployments by modifying the geoCML base image to suit their needs.

Using Kasm, users can sign into their GIS and interact with it via an immutable desktop interface. Users may also interact with their GIS via QGIS Server for automated tasks. 

geoCML deployments can be run locally or on a hosted web server. When a geoCML deployment is hosted, the URL and description for that GIS are posted to the DRGON (Distributed Registry of GISystems Over a Network). The DRGON is a single webpage containing information on all publicly hosted geoCML deployments, allowing users to quickly find geodata hosted on geoMCL deployments around the world. Users can use the DRGON to fork a GIS in order to create their own GIS using preexisting data. As a rule, all publicly hosted geoCML deployments must post their system to the DRGON; doing this will create a healthy, rich ecosystem of geodata currently missing in the industry. 

geoCML deployments can be made public, or can be protected via a password. Password protected deployments found on the DRGON are read-only unless the user accessing the data has the correct credentials to manipulate that data. geoCML deployments also support real-time collaboration with multiple concurrent users.

geoCML, including all of the repositories under github.com/geoCML, is open-source and community owned. As a community, we all must share a common goal of developing geoCML as GIS for good. GIS provides a tremendous amount of potential for good (supporting conservation efforts, combating the climate crisis, academic research, highlighting and enacting change for policial and social issues, etc), though history has unfortunately proved that they can also be used for evil (racial redlining, developing natural gas/oil pipeline through indigenous protected lands, supporting war efforts abroad, etc). While geoCML software comes without warranty, we all must work together to encourage the ethical use of geospatial technology so that we may all may prosper on this planet.
